
Vidushi Gandhi is a passionate and driven Data Science at Iktara, with a deep interest in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and software development. With a strong background in data science, full-stack development, and cloud computing, Vidushi has worked on a variety of projects ranging from recommendation systems to large-scale web applications.
Her expertise spans multiple programming languages, frameworks, and tools, including Python, JavaScript, React.js, Node.js, Django, SQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, and CephFS. She has a keen interest in solving complex problems using machine learning, natural language processing (NLP), and deep learning.
Beyond technical skills, Vidushi is highly motivated by innovation and is constantly exploring new technologies to enhance her work. She is currently working on a personal chatbot that will serve as an interactive medium for people to learn about her background, projects, and achievements. Her ability to integrate multiple technologies and work across different domains reflects her versatility and adaptability in the ever-evolving tech industry.
Vidushi is not only an accomplished developer but also an active blogger who shares insights on system software, machine learning, blockchain, and environmental sustainability. She enjoys contributing to the tech community through knowledge sharing and open-source projects, demonstrating her commitment to continuous learning and professional growth.




Vidushi Gandhi is a skilled Data Science Engineer with nearly one year of professional experience. With a strong background in machine learning, data analysis, and software development, she has worked on various projects ranging from recommendation systems to web applications. Her expertise spans multiple technologies, including Python, Django, ReactJS, and SQL, enabling her to develop scalable and efficient solutions. Passionate about innovation, Vidushi has actively contributed to projects involving sentiment analysis, chatbot development, and distributed file systems like Ceph. Beyond her technical expertise, she enjoys exploring emerging technologies and sharing her insights through blogs on system software, blockchain, and technology trends. Driven by curiosity and a problem-solving mindset, she continuously seeks opportunities to refine her skills and make meaningful contributions to the tech industry.



Research paper, "SVM-Based Framework for Breast Cancer Detection", published in SpringerLink on September 19, 2024, addresses the critical challenge of early breast cancer detection. Given the alarming statistics from the WHO in 2020, where over 2.35 million individuals were diagnosed and more than 690,000 lost their lives to breast cancer, this research aims to enhance detection efficiency using machine learning. The study evaluates K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Logistic Regression (LR) algorithms, with SVM achieving the highest accuracy of 95.5%. The paper emphasizes the importance of early and precise detection in reducing mortality rates, demonstrating how ML techniques can revolutionize cancer diagnosis and patient outcomes.
Similarly,This is the second research paper "Analysing the Causes of Mood Disorders: A Comprehensive Study", published in the International Journal of Computational Modeling and Physical Sciences (IJCMPS) on July 5, 2024, explores the increasing prevalence of depression and mood disorders. The WHO's 2020 report highlights that over 380 million people suffer from depression, with more than 1.05 million deaths linked to it globally. This research leverages machine learning models, including KNN, SVM, Decision Tree, Naive Bayes, and Logistic Regression, to detect and classify depression levels. The study's primary contribution lies in identifying key features affecting depression detection, aiming to facilitate early diagnosis and intervention. This work underscores the potential of AI-driven solutions in addressing mental health challenges.
These research showcases how machine learning can be instrumental in healthcare diagnostics, offering promising solutions for both physical and mental health concerns.


{
  "text": "Work Experience Overview\nI have gained diverse experience in data science, machine learning, AI, web development, research, technical writing, and open-source contributions. My work spans startups, academia, open-source communities, and content creation platforms.\n\n1. IKTARA Data Sciences (Aug 2024 – Present)\nRole: Data Science Engineer (Full-time)\nWorking as a full-time Data Science Engineer, focusing on big data, machine learning, and database optimizations.\nHandling large-scale data processing using ClickHouse, ensuring optimized query performance.\nBuilding and maintaining high-performance web applications using Django.\nKey Contributions:\nImplemented unsupervised learning models like Isolation Forest, DeepAR, and LSTM for anomaly detection and time-series forecasting.\nOptimized SQL queries for large datasets, improving system efficiency.\nIntegrated machine learning models into production pipelines.\n\n2. IKTARA Data Sciences (Jan 2024 – Jul 2024)\nRole: Data Science Engineer Intern\nInterned for 7 months at a startup, gaining hands-on experience in data science and backend development.\nWorked on data preprocessing, cleaning, and feature engineering for large datasets.\nDeveloped machine learning models for anomaly detection and time series forecasting.\nDesigned and implemented API endpoints in Django to serve machine learning models.\nOptimized database queries in ClickHouse for faster data retrieval.\nKey Technologies Used:\nBig Data: ClickHouse\nMachine Learning: DeepAR, Isolation Forest, LSTM\nBackend Development: Django, REST APIs\nData Handling: Pandas, SQL\n\n3. Technical Writer at Hashnode (Feb 2023 – Present)\nWriting technical blogs on AI, machine learning, big data, and cloud computing.\nEducating the community through well-researched articles.\nSkills: Blogging, Technical Writing, Content Management.\nBlog Dashboard: https://hashnode.com/@VGandhi27\n\n4. YouTube Content Creator (Jan 2023 – Present)\nRunning a YouTube channel – \"Spanning Treee\", focusing on AI, machine learning, and cloud computing.\nCreating tutorials and educational content on Microsoft Azure, AI, and ML.\nSkills: Video Content Creation, AI, Microsoft Azure.\nYouTube Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@spanningtreee\n\n5. Research Intern at Echelon Institute of Technology (Jan 2023 – Aug 2024)\nConducted research in AI and big data, contributing to institutional research projects.\nWorked on machine learning models for predictive analytics.\nAssisted in data collection, preprocessing, and model training.\nSkills: Research, Data Science, AI, Big Data.\n\n6. Google Developer Student Clubs (GDSC)\nRole: Technical Lead (Aug 2023 – Jul 2024)\nLed GDSC Echelon, organizing and managing tech events, workshops, and hackathons.\nProvided mentorship in React.js, JavaScript, GitHub, and AI.\nSkills: Leadership, Software Development, Team Management.\nRole: GDSC Cloud Jam Facilitator (Aug 2023 – Oct 2023)\nConducted Google Cloud workshops, introducing students to GCP, AI, and ML.\n\n7. Open Source Contributions\nGitHub Developer Program Member (Jan 2023 – Feb 2024)\nContributed to open-source projects using React.js, JavaScript, AI, and MERN Stack.\nHacktoberfest Contributor (Sep 2023 – Nov 2023)\nMade significant open-source contributions in Java, Python, C, and Web Development.\nHacktoberfest Contributor (Oct 2022 – Nov 2022)\nContributed to various repositories, improving skills in Java, C++, and data structures.\n\n8. Papersdrop (Web Content Writer) (Apr 2022 – Feb 2023)\nWorked as a content writer, publishing 7 blogs on tech topics.\nSkills: SEO Writing, Blogging, Content Management.\nLink to Work: Papersdrop Blogs\n\n9. Leadership & Volunteering\nBig Data and Hadoop Club (Sep 2022 – Jul 2023): Managed big data-related events and team activities.\nDepartment Newsletter Committee (Aug 2021 – Sep 2022): Led editorial and content management.\nKshitij Club Coordinator (Dec 2020 – Aug 2021): Managed events and team leadership activities.\n\nKey Skills Across All Roles\nProgramming: Python, Java, JavaScript, C++, SQL.\nMachine Learning: DeepAR, LSTM, Isolation Forest.\nBig Data: ClickHouse, MongoDB, Hadoop.\nWeb Development: Django, MERN Stack, REST APIs.\nCloud & DevOps: Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud (GCP).\nContent Creation: Blogging, Technical Writing, YouTube.\nOpen Source Contributions: GitHub, Hacktoberfest.\n\nSummary\nI have a strong foundation in data science, AI, machine learning, and web development, with expertise in big data processing and backend optimization. My work spans startups, research, open source, technical writing, and leadership roles, making me a well-rounded professional in the tech industry."
}


{
  "text": "Blogs by Vidushi Gandhi 1. System Software - The Beginning Point of All Computer Systems In this blog, Vidushi Gandhi explores the foundational role of system software in modern computing. She highlights how system software forms the backbone of all technological advancements, enabling seamless interaction between hardware and application software. The paper provides an in-depth analysis of various types of system software, such as operating systems, compilers, and device drivers, emphasizing their critical functions in managing computing resources. The blog also discusses the evolution of system software and how it has adapted to meet the growing demands of users, developers, and enterprises. By addressing key innovations and challenges in the field, this paper serves as a comprehensive guide for understanding the essential role of system software in modern computing environments. 2. Explain New Innovation in System Software -Innovation in system software has been a driving force behind technological advancements, and this paper delves into the latest developments that are reshaping the field. Vidushi Gandhi analyzes how breakthroughs in system software have led to improvements in automation, security, and computational efficiency. The paper references real-world examples where innovative system software solutions have streamlined operations in various industries. Additionally, it examines the role of artificial intelligence and machine learning in optimizing system software performance. By discussing emerging trends such as containerization, virtualization, and cloud-based operating systems, the blog provides valuable insights into how system software continues to evolve and shape the digital landscape. 3. Tech Opportunities in System Software - Machine Learning Engineer & Full Stack Developer - This paper explores the expanding career opportunities within the domain of system software, particularly for professionals in machine learning and full-stack development. Vidushi Gandhi discusses how system software advancements have paved the way for data-driven decision-making and robust web applications. She elaborates on the skills required to excel in these roles, emphasizing the importance of programming languages, frameworks, and industry best practices. The blog also highlights real-world applications where machine learning engineers and full-stack developers leverage system software to build scalable, efficient, and secure applications. This paper serves as a guide for aspiring professionals looking to navigate the evolving job market in technology. 4. Tech Opportunities in System Software - Java Developer and Python Developer-Continuing the discussion on career prospects, this blog paper focuses on the opportunities available for Java and Python developers within the system software domain. Vidushi Gandhi provides a comparative analysis of both programming languages, detailing their strengths, use cases, and industry adoption. The paper explores how Java remains a dominant choice for enterprise-level applications, while Python has gained traction in data science, automation, and AI-driven applications. By examining the demand for Java and Python developers, as well as the tools and frameworks associated with each language, this blog offers valuable guidance for individuals looking to build a career in software development.5. System Software Utilization in Top Reputed Tech Companies -This blog investigates how leading technology companies utilize system software to enhance their operations and services. Vidushi Gandhi presents case studies of major tech firms, analyzing how they integrate system software into their infrastructure. The paper discusses strategies used by companies to optimize performance, ensure security, and improve user experience. Additionally, it highlights how organizations leverage innovations such as cloud computing, microservices, and AI-driven system software to maintain a competitive edge. This blog provides a comprehensive overview of how system software plays a crucial role in driving success in the technology sector. 6. Blockchain - The Emergence of a New Type of Currency -Blockchain technology has revolutionized financial transactions and digital security, and this paper examines its growing impact. Vidushi Gandhi explores the fundamentals of blockchain, explaining how decentralized ledgers, cryptographic security, and smart contracts are transforming industries beyond cryptocurrency. The paper delves into real-world applications of blockchain, including supply chain management, healthcare, and digital identity verification. By analyzing the challenges and future potential of blockchain technology, this blog provides a detailed perspective on how blockchain is reshaping traditional business models and financial systems. 7. 10 Best Tricks to Organize Your Plastic Waste in Everyday Life -In an effort to address environmental concerns, Vidushi Gandhi authored this blog paper to propose practical solutions for reducing plastic waste. She discusses the growing problem of plastic pollution and presents innovative strategies for individuals and businesses to manage plastic consumption. The paper highlights sustainable alternatives, recycling techniques, and community-driven initiatives aimed at minimizing environmental impact. Through a combination of statistical data and actionable recommendations, this blog aims to promote eco-friendly practices and encourage a shift toward a more sustainable future."
}







